Conversation summary
Here are the main questions you asked, with a short summary of the answers:

“What does this do? config = yaml.safe_load(file)”
It reads a YAML file and turns it into a Python dictionary or list.

“yaml is not defined, does it need a package installed?”
Yes, you usually need to import it:
    import yaml

and install PyYAML if missing.
“what about xlsx file”
.xlsx is an Excel file, not YAML, so it needs a library like pandas with openpyxl or openpyxl directly.

“Can we use pandas instead”
Yes, for Excel files:
    pd.read_excel("file.xlsx")

but not for YAML directly.

“can pandas read yamal”
Not directly. Use yaml.safe_load() first.

“Do we need any packages to read and write as JSON array”
No extra package is required; Python’s built-in json module is enough.

“What is json.dump”
It writes a Python object to a file in JSON format.

“I just overwriitten the file, is it possible to revert it?”
Yes, if it was tracked in Git you can restore the previous version.

“Ive got the original file, how do I write something to the file without deleting what is already stored?”
Use append mode "a" or load the data, update it, then write back.

“ParserError ... while parsing a block mapping”
The YAML had invalid formatting; extra text was appended to the config, breaking syntax.

“What is a formatted json array?”
A JSON list with pretty spacing and line breaks for readability.

“How can i .dump it on different line?”
Use:
    json.dump(data, file, indent=2)

“I want to append overdue_sensor into config file and then to the file inside the config”
Best practice is to keep config YAML for settings only and write sensor alerts to a separate JSON file named in the config.

“with this: with open("data/config.yml") as file: config = yaml.safe_load(file) Have i read and gotten max_days_since_calibration and output_file?”
Yes, if those keys exist in the YAML file.

“what does this part do? orient="records"”
It converts a DataFrame row-by-row into a list of dictionaries for JSON output.

“I want the json to be created inside git-practice. How can I do that, now it is outside”
Use a path relative to the script location with Path(__file__).parent.

“explain the merging a bit more: .merge(sensors, calibrations, on="sensor_id"”
It joins the two tables using a shared sensor_id key.

“explain what (file) do”
It gives the path of the current script.

“Concerning pep8 how should the import be best set up?”
Standard library imports first, blank line, then third-party imports.

“Should there be an empty line at the top?”
No. Start the file at line 1.

“Should author information be added?”
Not required by PEP 8 unless the assignment or project demands it.

“Could I make overdue_sensors a list before with open section?”
Yes; convert the filtered DataFrame to a list of dicts first.

“Why cant I stage the new changes in my script+”
Usually because it was not opened from the correct Git repository or because VS Code was displaying the wrong Source Control view.

“check_sensors.py does not show at all in changes, even though it is modified”
It was staged; it appears under Staged Changes, not Changes.

“Could you list the questions I have asked you and give a short summary of our conversation?”
This is the summary you requested.